doc: GPU guide for Ubuntu 20 (#73)
openvinotoolkit/docker_ci: configure_gpu_ubuntu20.md

# Configuration Guide for the Intel® Graphics Compute Runtime for OpenCL™ on Ubuntu* 20.04

> Intel® Graphics Compute Runtime for OpenCL™ driver components required to use the GPU plugin and write custom layers for Intel® Integrated Graphics. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Intel® Graphics Compute Runtime for OpenCL™ driver components are required to use a GPU plugin and write custom layers for Intel® Integrated Graphics. 
```

> The driver is installed in the OpenVINO™ Docker image but you need to do some configuration steps to activate it in the container for a non-root user if you have Ubuntu 20.04 on your host.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The driver is installed in the OpenVINO™ Docker image but you need to activate it in the container for a non-root user if you have Ubuntu 20.04 on your host.
```

> In order to access GPU capabilities, a user needs to have the correct permissions on host and Docker container. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To access GPU capabilities, you need to have correct permissions on the host and Docker container. 
```

> The following will list the group assigned ownership of the render nodes on your host:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following commands to list the group assigned ownership of the render nodes on your host:
```

```bash
$ stat -c "group_name=%G group_id=%g" /dev/dri/render*
group_name=render group_id=134
```

> OpenVINO™ Docker images don't contain render group for openvino (non-root) user, because render group doesn't have strict group ID unlike video group. 
> We suppose two options to configure a container for you. Please choose one:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenVINO™ Docker images do not contain a render group for openvino non-root users because the render group does not have a strict group ID, unlike the video group. 
Choose one of the options below to configure a container.
```

> # 1. Configure a container to use GPU device on Ubuntu 20 host under non-root user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 1. Configure a Container to Use a GPU Device on an Ubuntu 20 Host Under a Non-Root User

```

> To run a OpenVINO container as non-root with access to GPU device, please specify render group ID from your host:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run an OpenVINO container as non-root with access to a GPU device, specify the render group ID from your host:
```

```bash

> $ docker run -it --rm --device /dev/dri  --group-add=<render_group_id_on_host> <image_name> 

Reviewer 2: what is `render_group_id_on_host`? I think It is not clear for the user

Author: I think I explain it in the next message -> For example, get render group ID on your host

```

> For example, get render group ID on your host:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, get the render group ID on your host:
```

```bash
$ docker run -it --rm --device /dev/dri --group-add=$(stat -c "%g" /dev/dri/render*) <image_name> 
```

> Now you can use the container with GPU access under non-root user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you can use the container with GPU access under the non-root user.
```

> # 2. Configure an image to use GPU device on Ubuntu 20 host and save it:
> Run a OpenVINO container as root with access to GPU device: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 2. Configure an Image to Use a GPU Device on an Ubuntu 20 Host and Save It

To run an OpenVINO container as root with access to a GPU device, use the command below: 
```

```bash
$ docker run -it --rm --user root --device /dev/dri --name my_container <image_name>
```

> Check groups for GPU device in the container, it should be look like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check groups for the GPU device in the container:
```

```bash
$ ls -l /dev/dri/
crw-rw---- 1 root video  226,   0 Feb 20 14:28 card0
crw-rw---- 1 root   134  226, 128 Feb 20 14:28 renderD128

> ```

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion
```bash
$ ls -l /dev/dri/
```
The output should look like the following:
```bash
crw-rw---- 1 root video  226,   0 Feb 20 14:28 card0
crw-rw---- 1 root   134  226, 128 Feb 20 14:28 renderD128
```
~~~

> Create group render in the container with the same group ID as on your host: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a render group in the container with the same group ID as on your host: 
```

```bash
$ addgroup --gid 134 render
```

> Check groups for GPU device in the container, it should be look like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check groups for the GPU device in the container:
```

```bash
$ ls -l /dev/dri/
crw-rw---- 1 root video  226,   0 Feb 20 14:28 card0
crw-rw---- 1 root render 226, 128 Feb 20 14:28 renderD128

> ```

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion
```bash
$ ls -l /dev/dri/
```
The output should look like the following:
```bash
crw-rw---- 1 root video  226,   0 Feb 20 14:28 card0
crw-rw---- 1 root render 226, 128 Feb 20 14:28 renderD128
```
~~~

> Add non-root user to the render group and check it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the non-root user to the render group:
```

```bash
$ usermod -a -G render openvino
$ id openvino
uid=1000(openvino) gid=1000(openvino) groups=1000(openvino),44(video),100(users),134(render)

> ```

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion
```bash
$ usermod -a -G render openvino
$ id openvino
```
Check that the group now contains the user:
```bash
uid=1000(openvino) gid=1000(openvino) groups=1000(openvino),44(video),100(users),134(render)
```
~~~

> Then re-login as non-root user:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then relogin as the non-root user:
```

```bash
$ su openvino
```

> Now you can use the container with GPU access under non-root user or you can save that container as the image and push to your registry. 
> Execute the following commands in another terminal:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you can use the container with GPU access under the non-root user or you can save that container as an image and push it to your registry. 
Open another terminal and run the commands below::
```
